Geneva: World  Health Organization, twenty thirteen.
Feikin DR, Hammitt LL, Murdoch DR, O’Brien KL, Scott JAG.
The enduring challenge of determining pneumonia etiology in children: considerations for future research priorities.
Kolstad PR, Burnham G, Kalter HD, Kenya-Mugisha N, Black  RE.
The integrated management of childhood illness in western  Uganda.
Bull World Health Organ nineteen ninety-seven;seventy-five Suppl one:seventy-seven–eighty-five.
Snow RW, Sartorius B, Kyalo D et al.
The prevalence of  Plasmodium falciparum in sub-Saharan Africa since nineteen hundred.
Nature  twenty seventeen;five hundred fifty:five hundred fifteen–eight.
O'Dempsey TJ, McArdle TF, Laurence BE, Lamont AC, Todd JE,  Greenwood BM.
Overlap in the clinical features of pneumonia and  malaria in African children.
Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg nineteen ninety-three;  eighty-seven:six hundred sixty-two–five.
Ssebuliba DM, Ouifki R, Pretorius C et al.
Evaluating the impact  of two training interventions to improve diagnosis and case-  management of malaria and pneumonia in Uganda.
Epidemiol  Infect twenty seventeen;one hundred forty-five:one hundred ninety-four–two hundred seven.
Scott JAG, Berkley JA, Mwangi I et al.
Relation between falcipa rum malaria and bacteraemia in Kenyan children: a population-  based, case-control study and a longitudinal study.
Lancet twenty eleven;  three hundred seventy-eight:thirteen sixteen–twenty-three.
Church J, Maitland K.
Invasive bacterial co-infection in African  children with Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a systematic re view.
Pneumonia Etiology Research for Child Health (PERCH) Study  Group.
Lancet twenty nineteen;  three hundred ninety-four:seven hundred fifty-seven–seventy-nine.
Levine OS, O'Brien KL, Deloria-Knoll M et al.
The Pneumonia  Etiology Research for Child Health Project: a twenty-first century child hood pneumonia etiology study.
Clin Infect Dis twenty twelve;fifty-four Suppl  two.
The PERCH Study Group.
The Pneumonia Etiology Research for  Child Health Project (PERCH) Study Materials.
Https://publi  chealth.
Edu/ivac/resources (five April twenty twenty-five, date last accessed).
Scott JAG, Wonodi C, Moïsi JC, et al.
The definition of pneumo nia, the assessment of severity, and clinical standardization in the  Pneumonia Etiology Research for Child Health study.
Twenty twelve; fifty-four Suppl two.
Cherian T, Mulholland EK, Carlin JB et al.
Standardized interpre tation of paediatric chest radiographs for the diagnosis of pneumo nia in epidemiological studies.
Bull World Health Organ two thousand five;  eighty-three:three hundred fifty-three–nine.
Fancourt N, Deloria Knoll M, Barger-Kamate B, et al.
Standardized interpretation of chest radiographs in cases of pediat ric pneumonia from the PERCH study.
Deloria-Knoll M, Feikin DR, Scott JAG, et al.
Identification and  selection of cases and controls in the Pneumonia Etiology Research  for Child Health project.
Twenty twelve; fifty-four Suppl  two.
Mogeni P, Williams TN, Fegan G et al.
Age, spatial, and temporal  variations in hospital admissions with malaria in Kilifi County,  Kenya: a twenty-five-year longitudinal observational study.
PLoS Med  twenty sixteen;thirteen.
Silaba M, Ooko M, Bottomley C et al.
Lancet Glob Health  twenty nineteen;seven:ethree hundred thirty-seven–forty-six.
Brooks M, Kiel F, Sheehy T, Barry K.
Acute pulmonary edema in falciparum malaria: a clinicopathological correlation.
New Engl J  Med nineteen sixty-eight;two hundred seventy-nine:seven hundred thirty-two–seven.
Taylor WRJ, Hanson J, Turner GDH, White NJ, Dondorp AM.
Respiratory manifestations of malaria.
Chest twenty twelve;one hundred forty-two:four hundred ninety-two–five hundred five.
Awori JO, Kamau A, Morpeth S et al.
The Etiology of Pneumonia  in HIV-uninfected Children in Kilifi, Kenya: Findings From the  Pneumonia Etiology Research for Child Health (PERCH) Study.
Pediatr Infect Dis J twenty twenty-one;forty.
Ceesay SJ, Casals-Pascual C, Nwakanma DC et al.
Continued de cline of malaria in The Gambia with implications for elimination.
PLoS One twenty ten;five.
Toure M, Keita M, Kane F et al.
Trends in malaria epidemiological  factors following the implementation of current control strategies  in Dangassa, Mali.
Cameron E, Battle KE, Bhatt S et al.
Defining the relationship be tween infection prevalence and clinical incidence of Plasmodium  falciparum malaria.
Nat Commun twenty fifteen;six:eight thousand, one hundred seventy.
Zar HJ, Andronikou S, Nicol MP.
Advances in the diagnosis of  pneumonia in children.
Tropical Medicine & International Health  twenty fourteen;nineteen Suppl I:seven–one hundred thirty-one.
White NJ, Watson JA, Uyoga S, Williams TN, Maitland KM.
Substantial misdiagnosis of severe malaria in African children.
Lancet twenty twenty-two;four hundred:eight hundred seven.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.
This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (https://creativecommons.org).
Zero/), which permits  unrestricted reuse, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
International Journal of Epidemiology, twenty twenty-five, fifty-four, one–seven https://doi.who.org.
OBJECTIVES We report estimates of global, national, and subnational CVD burden, including eighteen subdiseases and  twelve associated modifiable risk factors.
GBD twenty twenty-three estimated the population-level burden of diseases in two hundred four countries and territories  from nineteen ninety to twenty twenty-three.
RESULTS CVDs were the leading cause of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and deaths estimated in the GBD.
As of  twenty twenty-three, there were four hundred thirty-seven million (ninety-five percent UI: four hundred one to four hundred sixty-five million) CVD DALYs globally, a one.
Four-fold increase from the number in  nineteen ninety of three hundred twenty million (two hundred ninety-two to three hundred forty-four million).
The number of CVD deaths increased globally from thirteen.
One million (ninety-five percent UI: twelve).
(zero million) in nineteen ninety  to nineteen.
Two million (ninety-five percent UI: seventeen).
Five percent) of CVD burden is attributable to  modifiable risk factors three hundred forty-seven million [ninety-five percent UI: three hundred eighteen to three hundred seventy-three million] DALYs in twenty twenty-three).
CONCLUSIONS CVD remains the leading cause of disease burden and death worldwide with the greatest burden in  low, low-middle, and middle SDI regions.
Twenty twenty-five;eighty-six:twenty-one sixty-seven–twenty-two forty-three) twenty twenty-five The Authors.
Published by Elsevier on behalf of the American College of Cardiology Foundation.
This is an open  access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org).
Org/licenses/by-nc-nd/four.
ISSN seven hundred thirty-five-ten ninety-seven https://doi.who.org.
Fifteen Listen to this manuscript’s  audio summary by  Editor-in-Chief Dr Harlan M.
Org/journal/jacc/  podcasts.
Twenty-two, twenty twenty-five twenty twenty-five THE AUTHORS.
PUBLISHED BY ELSEVIER ON BEHALF OF THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF CARDIOLOGY FOUNDATION.
THIS IS AN OPEN ACCESS ARTICLE UNDER THE CC BY-NC-ND LICENSE (http://creativecommons.org).
Org/licenses/by-nc-nd/four.
Input data for CVDs included six thousand, four hundred forty-seven total  source-years (eleven seventy-six new source-years) of mortality  and non-fatal outcomes data.
Estimates of risk factor  exposure included fifty-five thousand, five hundred sixty-five total source-years (fifteen thousand, eight hundred twenty  new source-years) of data.
Estimates of relative risk  included three thousand, eight hundred fourteen source-years (nine hundred twenty new source-years)  of data.
A decomposition JACC VOL.
This information is also  necessary to gauge progress toward the Sus tainable Development Goals Target three.
Four,  which calls for a reduction of premature  mortality from non-communicable diseases  by one-third by the year twenty thirty.